we all like True Crime if the glut of
True Crime series is any indication it's
very suddenly become one of the most
engaging forms of contemporary
entertainment
and there's no sign of it stopping from
streaming to YouTube to networks to
podcasts it seems the genre has yet to
find its saturation point in 2022 True
Crime shows are among Netflix's most
watched and the number of True Crime
shows on Netflix is rapidly growing
between July of 2020 and March of 2021
the service launched 18 such series with
around 40 original shows currently
available to watch on their true crime
page since the release of into the deep
and other popular documentaries on the
service in recent years such as don't
cats making a murderer and Tiger King
Netflix has become particularly
associated with the genre while True
Crime shows were once favored by older
audiences with shows like Dateline and
2020 targeting those demographics
specifically they're now becoming
increasingly popular among people my age
and younger
and they raise a number of ethical
questions
particularly
for a streaming service like Netflix the
true crime series you put on to help you
go to sleep at night it's about a real
person often who have surviving
relatives who don't consider their
deceased loved ones murder to be very
relaxing
though we may know better we devour
every serving of this genre that is
provided to us in no small measure by
Netflix in September of 2022 Ryan Murphy
and Ian Brennan released monster the
Jeffrey Dahmer story starring Evan
Peters as the titular serial killer over
196 million hours of the show were
watched in the first week alone making
it the most popular show on the
streaming service at the time of release
furthermore just like Joe Exotic the
Tiger King Dahmer has received a great
deal of publicity
for all the wrong reasons
[Music]
foreign
despite Netflix's claims that the series
will give notorious serial killer
Jeffrey Dahmer's victims a voice the
show received harsh criticism for its
portrayal of the victims upon its debut
with several of the victims loved ones
speaking out saying Netflix didn't even
involve them in the process others have
said that by hiring American Horror
Stories Evan Peters the object of many a
girls and gay boys affection the show
has glamorized Dahmer himself after the
Netflix series premiered and Peter's
portrayal of the character went viral
the actual glasses that Dahmer wore in
prison
were auctioned off for a hundred and
fifty thousand dollars we've romanced
the serial killer for a long time mads
Mickelson's portrayal of Hannibal Lecter
and the criminally canceled show
Hannibal is a great example of this
Thomas Harris's bread and butter
character is fictional and not only
fictional but such a carnivalesque mix
of sophistication intellect and
brutality that I couldn't really say it
passes for realistic Hannibal lacks the
quiet chaos that real-life serial
killers possess though Dahmer was also a
cannibal serial killer he lacked the eat
the rude principles that Hannibal Lecter
lived by hardly a principled serial
killer himself Dahmer lacked lectures
discipline to stop at just cannibalism
and also engaged in necrophilia and
pedophilia but the major difference
between the two is that Hannibal
lecter's victims are all as fictional as
he is and so are the families of his
victims that is not the case for
Dahmer's victims it can be a lot to deal
with seeing the man who murdered your
son and her brother be glorified on
billboards and ads on YouTube imagine
getting that jump scare when you're
looking up a cake decorating tutorial
navigating the ethics of True Crime
content is tricky there is a fine line
drawn between real life procedural cop
dramas and celebrating the infamous
critics have begun to question the need
for entertainment mediums which
fetishize or even sexualize serial
killers in the last three years alone
we've seen multiple films about Ted
Bundy with two of them coming from
Netflix one of them starring Zac Efron a
whole new generation of girls fell head
over heels for the infamous killer which
was a grim remake in itself of the
real-life Ted Bundy trial he had
fangirls defending him in the press and
even begging to marry him after the
release of the Zac Efron movie extremely
Wicked shockingly evil and vile
Netflix's social media team actually
begged viewers to stop standing Bundy
but unlike Bundy
nobody ever thirsted for Jeffrey Dahmer
when he was on trial or in prison
at least not as publicly as with Bundy
but that seems to have changed now there
is a thirst for Dahmer made apparent on
Tick Tock and Twitter with hordes of
white women droning over how attractive
he is because the message we need to
send is that violent crime can turn a
five into an 11. again both Bundy and
Dahmer were serial killers who tortured
and murdered dozens of people whose
families are still alive and can see
these tweets and posts on Tick Tock the
Dahmer tag on Tick Tock now has more
than one billion views with users
posting videos expressing lust and even
Sympathy for the killer others have
re-edited scenes from the series to
resemble a romantic comedy with many
users commenting that they were rooting
for Dahmer and at least one victim to
live happily ever after oh God that
sounds familiar
foreign
of 2021 I released a video looking at
the controversial Korean manwa killing
stalking the story of a young man who is
abducted by a maniacal serial killer and
over the course of the series Falls
madly in love with him the series ends
with them both presumed dead the
audience for killing stalking seemed to
be split between people who enjoy dark
complex horror stories me and teenage
girls who were rooting for Yoon bum and
his captor osun Wu
to come out of it as a happy couple
because if you talk to a social worker
working out your problems with a violent
abuser and finding some common ground is
absolutely not the objective I wasn't
Disturbed that people romanticized a
fictional serial killer like I said
Hannibal Lecter has been romanticized
even by his own Creator granted fanables
were a little bit more
measured in their shipping of Will
Graham and Hannibal Lecter a ship name
referred to as hanogram instances of
Will and Hannibal as a happy couple were
usually depicted in alternate realities
where they could be together fans
recognized that this was impossible in
the canonical world the characters lived
in but the chemistry was so intense in
AU for them had to be created this
Nuance did not
does not seem to be present in much of
the killing stalking fandom where the
fervor for the violent deranged serial
killer osongwoo was almost exclusively
derived from how sexy he looked so
should I be surprised that there is a
visceral thirst for Dahmer coming from
the same age group no
am I shocked anyway
yes
shocked and disappointed and grossed out
and uncomfortable because unlike
Hannibal Lecter or osongwoo Jeffrey
Dahmer was a real person and his victims
were real people with real friends and
real families who grieved for the loss
of their loved ones who were already
going through a rough time seeing the
story of their murders brought back to
light by a major Netflix series and now
have to deal with a sizable portion of
the internet
talking about how cute or handsome
Jeffrey Dahmer was and how he deserved a
break because
they get him Honeys among other things
he wanted sex slaves
sex slaves and not in a fun consensual
Kink kind of a way he enjoyed conducting
chemical lobotomies to get what he
wanted is there really a I can change
him mentality to approaching these
serial killers that all he needs is the
right person to change that killing
people and the other stuff is just a
little Quirk that you can iron out I
know women who have been trying to get
their men to wash their beard trimmings
out of the bathroom sink for years with
no luck I don't know where you think
you're gonna get with stop being a
psycho the True Crime genre has rightly
received its fair share of criticism for
turning gruesome crimes into
entertainment at the expense of the
well-being of survivors and perhaps
there needs to be real action taken to
address that however this delusional
wave of people announcing that they are
not disturbed by Dahmer's crimes
feels like a whole new level of
desensitization they even say that the
things we see him doing in the series
really aren't that bad Dahmer is just a
little boy with doe eyes misunderstood
by everyone but them
they're not like other girls they can
handle a 14 year old boy getting
dismembered is this a problem with media
itself has the American pop culture
fiction cycle pushed the role of the
main character to be something
warranting empathy and understanding
without exception among the tropes
structures and sensibilities of American
fiction is it just automatically taken
for granted that the main character is
an empathizable figure whose role
through any despicable actions is
ultimately Redemption one of the parts
of this odd phenomenon that I've noticed
is that while girls of a certain age are
acting like Jeffrey Dahmer was Harry
Styles not everyone is lining up with
them and by everyone
I mean the gays
you know
his victims
wigays are notorious for thirsting over
guys we really shouldn't and also for
being obsessed with True Crime but this
seems to be one of the few exceptions
and for good reason gay men have been
living under the shadow of Jeffrey
Dahmer for as long as I've been alive as
the AIDS crisis was running rampant in
the community was only just starting to
receive any large-scale sympathy from
the hetero majority up Pops the news of
this gay male serial killer who isn't
just killing his victims but zombifying
them eating them
and melting their bodies in Vats of acid
he was a harsh example of what straight
people always said we were that we were
deviants and monsters never to be
trusted
and he was the perfect poster child for
this a nearly unparalleled monster
nobody talked about the fact that the
reason he got away with his crimes for
so long was because he was targeting gay
men especially men of color two groups
the police notoriously couldn't give two
shits about helping people only talked
about the cannibal queer
and how certainly he wouldn't be the
last to rise up to this prominence the
most disturbing aspect is how he was
able to carry on his career for as long
as he did by picking gay men of color he
was able to escape the scrutiny of law
enforcement Dahmer for this reason
is an uncomfortable reminder not only of
violence against the community but that
members of the community can be a
horrible detriment to our reputation and
a reminder that not very long ago we
weren't worth the Law's time
that we were nobodies to everybody
and it didn't matter how loud we
screamed
the world had us on mute and in many
sections of the United States this fear
of gay men never went away even today
these people are influenced by Dahmer
when they fight against gay rights they
associate his heinous crimes with others
in the queer community
because if one of us could be a monster
that means we all could be after the
discovery of Dahmer's crimes there was a
rash of hate crimes against gay men
across the United States with vigilante
mobs out to make sure that the next
Jeffrey Dahmer the next Monster queer
wouldn't get a chance to find his
victims and so the queer Community
especially gay men have lived with
Dahmer Specter for three decades
so you'd be hard-pressed to find a lot
of gay men thirsting over the killer
online Evan Peters yes we've been
drooling over him since he first showed
up in American Horror Story but not the
actual Jeffrey Dahmer and not Evan
peters's portrayal of Jeffrey Dahmer in
fact there was a huge pushback when the
series was released because it was
tagged as lgbtq on Netflix presumably
because of Dahmer's own sexuality and
the sexualities of his victims but while
the queer Community fights back against
A Renewed push to remove our rights do
we want people seeing lgbtq tagged to
Jeffrey [ __ ] Dahmer when they're
browsing Netflix
no and so the community in a rare moment
of agreement demanded Netflix remove the
tag
and they did which considering Netflix's
pig-headedness when it comes to
defending transphobic comedians on their
platform kind of shocked me they're not
exactly well known for doing what the
queer Community asks of them these days
they probably had the wherewithal to
realize that Dahmer's existence as a
serial killer was due in large part to
homophobia and racism so they didn't
want to stick their hand into that
particular Hornet's Nest this is a
telling that at least doesn't completely
ignore Dahmer's effect on the gay black
community they've had to dodge a lot of
queer-related controversies this year
this is among one of the easier ones to
resolve typical accounts of his murder
spree usually Overlook the fact the
queer communities of color were easy
targets for Dahmer due to long-standing
patterns of police violence and
especially indifference in major cities
across the Midwest similar to what
happened in many cities after World War
II Milwaukee where Dahmer committed the
majority of his murders saw an increase
in the visibility of its gay community
nearly a thousand gay men called
Milwaukee home according to a study
conducted by the city's influential
crime prevention body the Metropolitan
Commission on crime prevention during
the war as words spread about them
more arrests and convictions were made
in the city during this time the city's
black population also grew as a result
of the Second Great Migration an exodus
of African Americans from the south
spurred by The increased demand for
manufacturing Goods during the second
world war Milwaukee cops happily
targeted these new growing communities
as well
in spite of the fact that they were
directly contributing
to the war effort
the media also played a role in the
criminalization of City residents who
were seen as leading immoral Lifestyles
the Milwaukee journal's editorials from
the 1940s frequently used terms like
slaves of lust and Menace of sex
perverts to describe the emerging gay
community it also supported the
Metropolitan Commission on crime
prevention's 1946
sexual psychopath law which would have
institutionalized overt homosexuals
until their deviant Behavior was cured
or otherwise
otherwise meaning dead to defuse the
threat of a growing minority presence
these sexual psychopath laws were
introduced and passed in places like
Milwaukee as the gay community grew in
prominence
and as more African-Americans relocated
there black people were not safe from
these sexual psychopath laws because as
far as police were concerned interracial
relationships were just as bad as gay
ones because of the city's changing
demographics Milwaukee's police
department created new units to better
defend white straight residents from
black and other minority groups in the
1960s the fifth Police District in the
city's predominantly black North Side
had four and a half times as many
officers as the adjacent majority white
District this kind of Terror against
black Milwaukee residents created a
culture of fear and distrust between the
police and black and queer people who
often hesitated to report crimes
committed against them which helps
explain how someone like Dahmer could go
relatively unnoticed or unpunished for
so long plus a municipal statute from
1911 called the freeloader Clause barred
people who did not own property from
filing complaints against the police
with the fire and police commission so
many black renters assumed their cries
for help would fall on deaf ears these
long histories of anti-black and
anti-queer violence created in an
environment where Dahmer could murder 17
black indigenous Asian Latino and gay
men and boys with little pushback many
were particularly susceptible to Dahmer
and his tactics because of Decades of
the city's structured racism and
homophobia today we know that there were
many instances in which the police could
have intervened but did not
in one instance officers John A
balserzak and Joseph gabrish had the
opportunity to rescue a disoriented
unclothed and bleeding 14 year old boy
from Dahmer
however they took the killer at his word
that the child was actually 19 and just
drunk
no probing no investigation although
balser Zach and gabrish were eventually
fired for their actions they were
reinstated with back pay in 1994.
balserzak had a long career in the
police department serving as president
of the Milwaukee Police Association from
2005 to 2009 before retiring in 2017.
2017 five years ago and people question
why Pride organizations don't want
police officers to participate in
uniform over the years and the many
retellings of the Dahmer story his
victims have been described as Street
urchins drug addicts and people not
unfamiliar with their own brushes with
the law as if that should justify the
heinous things done to them creating a
sense that they were far from innocent
victims allows most people to look at
the crime spree as the actions of one
queer psychopath if he only targets
people who have it coming then there's
no cause for concern if you live by the
straight and narrow
regardless of how this betrays malice
and laziness on the police force
culminating in decades of police abuse
and neglect how many other people
disappear because the police don't think
they're worth their time how many that
we never ever hear about it was almost a
Trope in the gay Villages of big cities
young gay men and trans people just
going missing and no one investigating
it
many hoped they'd just packed up and
moved home but most knew it was never
something quite so innocent
talk to the elders in your local queer
community
they remember
but even with all of this knowledge of
neglect heartbreak disappearances lost
and destroyed lives all of it freely
available to anyone who can type Google
into an internet browser The Thirst for
Dahmer is real
despite his cannibalism despite the
decades-long Erasure of his victims
these women and mostly teenage girls are
swooning over him
and why not to our knowledge Dahmer
never killed any teenage girls or any
women at all so there's a level of
disconnection just like with killing
stalking would the teenage fans of
killing stalking be so in love with osun
Wu if they were watching him spend each
issue horrifically torturing and
murdering a woman he kills women in the
series multiple in fact but they're
barely Side characters
Yoon bum is the main event and in my
opinion because Yoon bum is a man female
readers are able to take in a horror
story without facing the true horror of
it because unfortunately to this day
many women still see gay men as nothing
more than a fancy accessory especially
teenage girls who lust for the perfect
gay best friend a boy whose sex life is
secret so you never have to hear about
it but he's always there to tell you if
your boyfriend's being a jerk gay men
and boys as a purse or a fancy iPhone
case something to show off but
ultimately something disposable and we
get an extra layer of that with Dahmer's
victims since the vast majority of them
were not white but the vast majority of
Dahmer's thirsters online are a white
there's further license for
disconnection they get to look at them
even less like people than if they were
white gay men it's telling
that the person fans ship Dahmer with
the most is Stephen Hicks his first and
whitest victim and while I am far from
opposed to queer villains in media I do
wonder how smart it is to drop this
story
onto such a large platform when the gay
community is already seeing an increase
in hate crimes and anti-gay laws across
the United States the media's initial
reporting on the Dahmer case was
entangled in a subtle but pervasive
homophobic logic even as it denied
having any such effect lesbian and gay
activists in Milwaukee and elsewhere
protested strongly against initial
references to the Dahmer murders as
homosexual Overkill by public officials
and the mainstream press arguing that
Dahmer's actions were no more
representative of the homosexual
Community than the killings of a
heterosexual serial killer would be
representative of the heterosexual
Community thus the term homosexual
Overkill served to normalize
heterosexuality even heterosexual serial
killers while pathologizing
homosexuality the media is surprisingly
responded quickly to the protests and
the phrase homosexual Overkill was
quickly removed from coverage of the
case in fact it appears that the media
became so concerned that their reports
not appear homophobic that they largely
dropped any mention of Dahmer's sexual
orientation even at Dahmer's trial his
sexual orientation barely registered as
an issue those who advocated for gay
assimilation praised this development
according to this line of thinking
bringing up Dahmer sexuality and media
coverage of the murders was
inappropriate because it had nothing to
do with why he became a serial killer
but if Dahmer's sexual orientation could
not be mentioned
neither could institutional homophobia
which was a problem given the
overwhelming evidence that Dahmer had
internalized societal homophobia to such
an extent that he felt guilt shame
discomfort and hatred about his own
homosexuality a logical though extreme
result of these feelings could have been
the urge to kill those to whom he was
sexually attracted in a Twisted way I
could perhaps understand how someone
would think that having male zombies for
sex and sex only would separate him
from all the other trappings of the gay
lifestyle however with his sexuality out
of the question society would have to
take no blame for the killings the few
reporters who did discuss homophobia and
Dahmer's gayness mostly in LGBT
magazines tended to ignore the fact that
Dahmer was white the reluctance to
discuss interracial sex in light of the
Dahmer murders can be interpreted as a
sign of Shame and fear of having one's
sexual orientation linked to racism or
both according to several of Dahmer's
acquaintances he displayed a deep-seated
bigotry toward African Americans and
made racist comments about black gay men
in particular while authorities and the
media learned to avoid making over
references to Dahmer sexual orientation
in their official portrayals of him
Dahmer himself made use of what we might
call gay rights strategies as his career
as a serial killer gained momentum these
actions along with the media's delayed
coverage of Dahmer sexual orientation
highlights the inadequacies and
potential social hazards of the
neoliberal gay rights rhetoric he used
his gayness to his Advantage when
convicted of sexual assault in the
enticing of a child for immoral purposes
in 1989 he came out to the judge
afterwards the judge sentenced him to
five years probation and one year in the
House of Corrections with work release
permitted in order so that he wouldn't
lose his job at this point he had
already killed five people he would kill
12 more before finally being caught and
convicted in 1978 he had killed Stephen
Mark Hicks an 18 year old by Dahmer's
admission he was bludgeoned with a
dumbbell and strangled to death before
being dismembered
remains were pulverized and Scattered
behind Dahmer's childhood home in 1987
he killed Stephen Walter Toomey his body
was dismembered in the basement of
Dahmer's grandmother's house and the
remains discarded in the trash in 1988
he killed two men
James Edward Duck's daughter a 14 year
old and Richard Guerrero in 1989 he
killed Anthony Lee Sears after the
murder Dahmer preserved his skull and
genitals in a filing cabinet in 1990 he
killed Raymond Lamont Smith Edward
Warren Smith
Ernest Marquez Miller and David Courtney
Thomas on September 24th in 1991 he
killed Curtis Strader Errol Lindsay on
April 7th Tony Hughes on May 24th Conor
accent the same phone on May 27th Matt
Turner on June 30th Jeremiah Weinberger
on July 5th Oliver Lacy on July 15
Joseph bradhoft on July 19th and then
was finally arrested on July 23rd does
this sound like the man anyone let alone
teenage girls should be lusting over
having a thing for serial killers isn't
new and it hasn't risen up just because
of shows on Netflix there are several
online communities such as blogs and
message boards where fans of serial
killers like Bundy and Dahmer and
Richard Ramirez and others expressed
their adoration for these individuals
as if they may be a pop star however as
evidenced by the statements made by the
families of Dahmer's victims and the
show's proclivity for trying to
understand the killer rather than to
tell the stories of his victims simply
because the killer was a moderately
attractive white man
maybe adaptations of these stories can
arguably create more harm than good
this is much worse than the situation
with killing stalking
because although The Thirst was and is
real for osongwoo he like Hannibal
Lecter before him was a fictional
character who never actually hurt anyone
the creation of an artist is a
commentary on our willingness to forgive
nearly anything if someone is attractive
but Dahmer was real and his victims were
real and the pain their families
suffered still is very much real
so maybe the next time a producer green
lights a movie or streaming series about
a notorious serial killer perhaps they
should refrain from playing armchair
psychologist pretending that their
movies or series can give some new
insight into the killer that hasn't
already been gleamed by criminal
psychiatrists long before now
and instead
focus on the people whose lives they
took
they
are the people we really ought to
remember
foreign
[Music]
thank you